---
layout:     post
title:      "Emmet简明教程2"
subtitle:   "Emmet"
date:       2019-04-03 19:19:00
author:     "LeoHe"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
tags:
    - emmet
    - css
    - plugin
---

[TOC]

# CSS 缩写

While Emmet abbreviations are good for generating HTML, XML or any other structured markup, it may look useless for CSS. You don’t want to write CSS selectors and transform them to CSS selectors, right? The only thing Emmet can do for you is to provide shorthands for CSS properties, but editors with native snippets and autocomplete can help you way better.

Actually, Emmet has something to offer.

For CSS syntax, Emmet has a lot of predefined snippets for properties. For example, you can expand `m` abbreviation to get `margin: ;` snippet. But you don’t want just `margin` property, you want to *specify a value* for this property. So you have to manually type, let’s say, `10px`.

Emmet can greatly optimize your workflow here: you can *inject value directly into abbreviation*. To get `margin: 10px;`you can simply expand the `m10` abbreviation. Want multiple values? Use a hypen to separate them: `m10-20` expands to `margin: 10px 20px;`. Negative values? No problem: precede the first value with hyphen and all the rest with double hyphens: `m-10--20` expands to `margin: -10px -20px;`



## 使用单位标注值(Supplying Values with units)

By default, when you expand an abbreviation with integer value, Emmet outputs it with a `px` unit: `m10` → `margin: 10px;`. If you’re expanding an abbreviation with a float value, it is outputted with an `em` unit: `m1.5` → `margin: 1.5em;`. But you can explicitly provide the unit name, just by putting any alpha characters right after value: `m1.5ex` → `margin: 1.5ex;`, `m10foo` → `margin: 10foo;`.

If you’re explicitly defining units, you don’t need to use hyphens to separate values anymore: `m10ex20em` → `margin: 10ex 20em;`, `m10ex-5` → `margin: 10ex -5px;`.



## 数值的别称(Value alias)

Emmet has a few aliases for commonly used values:

- `p` → `%`
- `e` → `em`
- `x` → `ex`

You can use aliases instead of full units:

- `w100p` → `width: 100%`
- `m10p30e5x` → `margin: 10% 30em 5ex`



## 色值(Color values)

- `#1` → `#111111`
- `#e0` → `#e0e0e0`
- `#fc0` → `#ffcc00`



## 无单位属性(unit-less properties)

Some CSS properties are defined as *unit-less*, e.g. no unit suffix will be outputted: `lh2` → `line-height: 2;`, `fw400`→ `font-weight: 400;`.

These values are: `'z-index`, `line-height`, `opacity` and `font-weight` but you can override them with `css.unitlessProperties` preferences.

## 重要修饰符(!important modifier)

尽量不要使用这个

You can add `!` suffix at the end of any CSS abbreviation to get `!important` value:

```
p!+m10e!
```

...will produce

```css
padding:  !important;
margin: 10em !important;
```

